Weiß Schwarz (English Edition) Comprehensive Rules ver. 2.10 Last updated: September 17, 2025
Content Section 1. Overview of the Game ..................................1 Section 2. Card Information ...........................................2 Section 3. Zones of the Game .......................................4 Section 4. Basic Concepts .............................................7 Section 5. Setting Up the Game ....................................9 Section 6. Game Procedure .........................................10 Section 7. Attack and Battle.........................................11 Section 8. Play and Resolve Cards and Abilities.......14 Section 9. Rule Action ..................................................18 Section 10. Keywords and Keyword Abilities ............19 Section 11. Miscellaneous............................................22
Rules
Section 1. Overview of the Game
1.1. Number of players 1.1.1. This game is played with two players. The current comprehensive rules do not apply to any other number of players.
1.2. Winning and losing 1.2.1. If any player loses, the game ends immediately. If your opponent loses and you do not, you win the game. 1.2.2. If any player fulfills any losing conditions, that player loses the game by rule action the next time rule actions are performed (Section 9). 1.2.2.1. During a game, if a player has four (4) or more cards in their level, they fulfill a losing condition. 1.2.2.2. If a player has zero cards in their deck and waiting room, they fulfill a losing condition. 1.2.3. If both players lose simultaneously, the game ends in a draw. 1.2.4. Any player may concede the game at any time. Any player who concedes the game is eliminated from it immediately, loses the game without proceeding to a check timing, and the game ends. 1.2.4.1. No card effects can interfere with conceding. No card effects can force a player to concede, and no card effects can replace losing the game with a concession. 1.2.5. Players may win or lose the game by a card effect. In this case, that player wins or loses while resolving the effect and the game ends without proceeding to a check timing.

1.3.2. If for any reason a player is forced to perform an action that they are unable to perform, they do not perform any action. Similarly, if a player is forced to perform multiple actions and they are only able to perform a part of them, they perform as much of the actions as they are able to.
1.3.2.1. If something is forced into a state that it is already in, it does not become said state again, and that action is not performed.
1.3.2.2. If, for any reason, an action is forced to be performed zero (0) or a negative number of times, no action is performed. No opposite action will take place even if it has to be performed a negative number of times.
1.3.3. If an effect from a card attempts to do something, and, at the same time, an effect from a card stops the action from taking place, the effect that stops the action takes precedence.
1.3.4. If, for any reason, more than one player is required to make a decision at the same time, the turn player makes the choice first. The non-turn player will make their choice after knowing the decision made by the turn player.
1.3.5. If, for any reason, a player is forced to choose a number, they must choose zero or a positive integer, unless otherwise specified. They cannot choose any fractions or negative numbers.

1.3. Golden rules of the game 1.3.1. If the comprehensive rules and the text of a card contradict with each other, the card text takes precedence. 1.3.1.1. If there is any conflict between the card text of English Edition cards and Japanese Edition cards, the card text of the respective languages will take precedence for that player.
―1―

Section 2. Card Information

2.2.2. The illustration has no special meaning to gameplay.
2.2.3. There may be words above the card text (or, in the case that there is no card text, words above the Japanese Card Name of the card) that have no special meaning to gameplay. These words are called flavor texts, and are considered a part of the illustration.

Character card

Event card

Climax card

① Japanese Card Name ② English Card Name ③ Level ④ Cost ⑤ Icon ⑥ Trigger Icon

⑦ Card Text ⑧ Power ⑨ Soul ⑩ Trait(s) ⑪ Color

2.1. Card Name 2.1.1. The proper name to identify a card. 2.1.1.1. Some cards have small letters above the card name to help show how to read it. This is not a part of the card name and has no meaning in terms of rules. 2.1.1.2. There are card names with words struck off, or painted over. In those cases, for the affected parts, they are not considered a part of the card name, and do not hold any meaning in terms of rules, nor are taken into account when card names are referred to. 2.1.1.3. Some cards do not have a Japanese Card Name, as those cards did not exist in the Japanese Edition at the time of production of the First Edition of the product. 2.1.2. Within the card text, if there are words that are within inverted commas (i.e. "Text"), unless otherwise specified, this refers to the specific card with that Card Name. 2.1.2.1. If written as "with "○○○ (▲▲▲)" in its card name", this refers to a portion of a card's Card Name, where ○○○ is part of the English Card Name, and ▲▲▲ is part of the Japanese Card Name. 2.1.2.2. If written as "with "○○○" in its card name", this refers to a portion of a card's English Card Name, where there is either a punctuation mark or no text, immediately before and after OOO.
Example: For a "Choose a character with "MOB" in its card name, and that character gets +1000 power until end of turn." effect, the player may choose a card named "Ritsu: Together With MOB", a card named "MOB: Gratitude Towards His Master", or a card named "Shigeo "MOB" Kageyama", but may not choose a card named "Moblit".

2.3. Type 2.3.1. The type of a card. 2.3.2. There are 3 types of cards: “character”, “event” and “climax”. The card’s type is indicated on the left of the English Card Name by white text enclosed within a black bubble. 2.3.2.1. A “character” is a card depicting a role or a character. 2.3.2.1.1. A character card has “ “ on the left of the English Card Name. 2.3.2.1.2. When the text of a card does not specifically state the zone of reference for a “character”, it refers to “a character that is on the stage”. 2.3.2.2. An “event” card is a card depicting an incident that can occur during the game. 2.3.2.2.1. An event card has “ “ on the left of the English Card Name. 2.3.2.3. A “climax” is a card depicting dramatic incidents that can occur during the game. 2.3.2.3.1. A climax has “ “ on the left of the English Card Name. 2.3.2.3.2. When the text of a card does not specifically state the zone of reference for a “climax”, it refers to “a “climax” card that is to be placed on the climax area”. 2.3.2.3.3. “Climax” may be written as “CX” in text.
2.4. Color 2.4.1. The color of a card. 2.4.2. The playing of cards is limited by their colors. Refer to “Section 8. Play and Resolve Cards and Abilities” for more details.
2.5. Trait 2.5.1. The trait of a card. This exists only on a “character”. 2.5.2. Although traits are information that have no special meaning in terms of rules per se, they are often referred to by other abilities and effects. 2.5.3. When card text refers to a trait, the referred trait is enclosed within specific ≪≫ brackets.
2.6. Level 2.6.1. The minimum level required to play a card. This exists only on a “character” or “event”. 2.6.2. The playing of cards is limited by the level of the player. Refer to “Section 8. Play and Resolve Cards and Abilities” for more details.

2.2. Illustration 2.2.1. The illustration that contains the image of the card’s contents.

2.7. Cost 2.7.1. The cost required to play a card. This exists only on a “character” or “event”.

―2―

2.7.2. To play a card, a number of cards equal to the cost indicated must be placed from the stock to the waiting room. Refer to “Section 8. Play and Resolve Cards and Abilities” for more details.

“character” or “event”, while it is located at the top right of a “climax”. 2.13.2. Although title names have no special meaning in terms of rules per se, they may be referred to by other abilities and effects.

2.8. Icon 2.8.1. If a card possesses a special mechanic, an icon will be indicated for easy reference. 2.8.2. If a Counter Icon ( ) is present, it means that the card can be used during the Counter Step during your opponent’s turn. 2.8.2.1. Unless otherwise specified, it is possible to play a card with a Counter Icon during your own turn during your main phase.
2.8.3. If a Clock Icon ( ) is present, the card possesses an ability that is relevant when it is in the clock (3.8).
2.9. Power 2.9.1. The strength of a card during battle. This exists only on a “character”. Refer to “Section 7. Attack and Battle” for more details.

2.14. Collection ID 2.14.1. The ID of a card. This is an alphanumeric sequence on the right of the card's Type. 2.14.2. The collection ID has no special meaning to gameplay.
2.15. Rarity 2.15.1. The rarity shows how often a card appears in a pack. This is indicated on the right of the collection ID. 2.15.2. The rarity has no special meaning to gameplay.
2.16. Illustrator 2.16.1. The rights owner of a card’s illustration. This is indicated at the bottom of a card. 2.16.2. The illustrator has no special meaning to gameplay.

2.10. Soul 2.10.1. The base value of damage dealt to a player during a card’s battle. This exists only on a “character”. Refer to “Section 7. Attack and Battle” for more details. 2.10.2. The soul is not indicated numerically, but by the number of Soul Icons ( ) on the card.
2.11. Trigger Icon 2.11.1. An icon(s) indicating the effect of a card when it is revealed during the Trigger Step of an Attack Phase. Refer to “Section 7. Attack and Battle” for more details.
2.12. Card Text 2.12.1. The set of abilities a card has is written inside the text frame. The contents within the frame is referred to as “card text”. 2.12.2. Unless otherwise specified, all card text will only be valid in the following zones. 2.12.2.1. In principle, the card text written on a “character” will only be valid when it is on the stage. 2.12.2.2. In principle, the card text written on a “climax” will only be valid when it is on the climax area. 2.12.2.3. An ability that presumes being usable in a zone is also valid in that zone. 2.12.3. Some card texts contain italic text in () to show the description of a Keyword or a Keyword Ability. These are known as reminder texts. Reminder texts are part of a card text, but they serve the sole purpose of explaining abilities, and do not affect the game in any way.

2.17. Copyright Information 2.17.1. The copyright information of the rights owner. This is indicated at the bottom of a card. 2.17.2. The copyright information has no special meaning to gameplay.
2.18. Side Frame 2.18.1. The background color of the frame containing the illustrator (2.16) and copyright information (2.17). This indicates whether a card is affiliated with the Weiß or the Schwarz side of the game. 2.18.1.1. If the background color is white, the card is affiliated with the Weiß side. 2.18.1.2. If the background color is black, the card is affiliated with the Schwarz side. 2.18.1.3. If the background color is a gradient from white to black, the card is affiliated with both the Weiß and Schwarz sides. 2.18.2. Although the affiliation of a card has no special meaning in terms of rules per se, they may be referred to by other abilities and effects.
2.19. Referencing Information 2.19.1. When a rule or effect refers to information of a card, if that card does not have that information, it is referenced as 0 if that information is numerical, and as not existing otherwise. 2.19.2. When the values of non-numerical information are compared, if at least one of them absent, the values are not considered to be identical.

2.13. Title Name 2.13.1. The original work a card originates from. The title name of a card is normally indicated on the right of the English card name for a
―3―

Section 3. Zones of the Game
3.1. Basic Information of Zones 3.1.1. For each zone, each player has one of their own unless otherwise specified. 3.1.2. The number of cards in each zone is public to all players and can be verified at any time. 3.1.3. The information of cards in a zone may be public or hidden, depending on the zone in question. Zones with public information are called “public zones” and zones with hidden information are called “hidden zones”. 3.1.4. With the exception of a card moving from one stage position to another, if a card moves from one zone to another, unless otherwise specified, the card is considered a new card in a new zone. All effects applied in previous zones do not apply in the new zone. 3.1.5. When multiple cards are put into a zone simultaneously, unless otherwise specified, the order of the cards in the new zone is decided by the owner of those cards. 3.1.5.1. When multiple cards are put into a hidden zone from a public zone, if the owner of those cards can decide the order in which those cards are put, all players other than the owner are not allowed to know the order in which those cards were put into the hidden zone. 3.1.5.1.1. If cards are put into a hidden zone in a specific position, all players are allowed to know the number of cards put at that position. 3.1.6. If a card is to be moved to a zone without a player specified for the zone, in the absence of specific instructions, the card is to be moved to the zone of the card’s owner.
3.2. Deck 3.2.1. The zone where a player’s deck is put at the beginning of a game. 3.2.2. The deck is a hidden zone. All cards in this zone are put face down, and all players are not allowed to see the information or order of cards, or change the order of cards in the deck. 3.2.3. When a specified player is to perform a resolution involving an action on a specified number of cards from the top or bottom of the deck, the player resolves that action in order, one card at a time from the top or bottom of the deck. 3.2.3.1. If the specified number of cards is "up to (Number)", before resolving for the next card, the player may declare that they will not resolve for the next card, and end the action. 3.2.3.1.1. In this case, a player may choose to declare the end of the action before the resolving the first card, thus not resolving any cards. 3.2.3.2. During the resolution of this action, if there are no cards in the deck, the action is suspended, and the refresh resolution (9.2)

is executed, before proceeding with the action. 3.2.3.3. During the resolution of this action, if the number of cards left in the deck is less than the number of cards specified in the action, and there would be cards left in the deck after performing the same number of resolutions as the number of cards left in the deck, the action ends.
Example: If a player is instructed to "look at the top 5 cards of your deck", and there are 3 cards in the deck at that point, the player looks at those 3 cards from the top, one at a time, and ends the action.
3.2.4. When required to shuffle a deck, the order of the cards in the deck are changed without a specific pattern. Regardless of the master of the ability which instructs a shuffle, the player who owns the deck performs the shuffle.
3.2.5. When cards from the deck are to be flipped over, those cards are revealed, and put into the resolution zone (3.13).
3.3. Hand 3.3.1. The zone where a player puts the cards that are drawn from their deck. 3.3.2. While the hand is a hidden zone, each player is allowed to see the information of cards in their own hand at will. Players are not allowed to see the information of cards in their opponent’s hand. Players are allowed to change the order of cards in their own hand. 3.3.3. At the End Phase (6.8) of the turn player, if the number of cards in the turn player’s hand exceeds the limit (3.3.3.1), that player must put cards from their hand into their waiting room until they fulfill the limit (6.8.1.2). 3.3.3.1. Unless otherwise specified by effects, the limit of the number of cards in a player’s hand is seven (7) cards.
3.4. Waiting Room 3.4.1. The zone where, unless otherwise specified, cards such as characters that are removed from the stage, used event or climax cards, or cards used for paying costs are put into. 3.4.2. The waiting room is a public zone. All cards in this zone are put face up, and all players are allowed to see the information of cards at will. Players are allowed to change the order of cards in their own waiting room. When a card is put into this zone, put it on the top of those already in the waiting room.
3.5. Stage 3.5.1. The zone where a player’s characters are placed on. 3.5.2. This zone has five (5) stage positions. A card on a stage position is also regarded as being on the stage. 3.5.3. The stage is a public zone.

―4―

3.6. Stage Positions 3.6.1. The zone where a player’s characters are placed on. Each player has five (5) stage positions. 3.6.2. Stage positions are public zones. The cards in these zones are placed face up, and all players are allowed to see the information of cards at will. In principle, there can only be one (1) card on each stage position. 3.6.3. When a card is placed on a stage position from a zone that is not a stage position, that card is placed in the stand state (4.6.1.1). When a card moves from a stage position to another stage position, that card’s orientation state (4.6.1) does not change. 3.6.4. The three stage positions in the front (①, ②, and ③) are collectively called the “Center Stage”, while the two stage positions at the back (④ and ⑤) are collectively called the “Back Stage”. Of the three stage positions in the center stage, from left to right, they are called the “left position of the center stage” (①), the “middle position of the center stage” (②), and the “right position of the center stage” (③) respectively. Of the two stage positions in the back stage, from left to right, they are called the “left position of the back stage” (④), and the “right position of the back stage” (⑤) respectively. 3.6.5. ① and ④, ② and ④, ② and ⑤, and ③ and ⑤, are related to each other by their stage positions. From the respective back stage positions, the respective center stage positions are called cards “in front”. From the respective center stage positions, the respective back stage positions are called cards “behind”. 3.6.6. A player’s ① and the opponent’s ③, the player’s ② and the opponent’s ②, and the player’s ③ and the opponent’s ①, are related by facing each other. From the respective player’s center stage position, the opponent’s respective center stage positions are called “facing” the card. 3.6.7. If a non-character card is on a stage position, that card is put into its owner’s waiting room as a rule action (9.6.1).

3.7. Marker Area 3.7.1.1. A zone where cards are put into by special effects during the process of a game. Each player has five (5) marker areas, one for each of their respective stage positions. Each marker area is treated with the same relations to other cards as the respective positions it is placed under, such as “center stage”, “back stage”, “left” “right”, “middle”, “in front of”, “behind”, and “facing”. 3.7.1.2. Although they are treated with the same relation, they are considered independent zones and are not present on the stage.
3.7.2. The marker area is a hidden zone. All cards in this zone are put face down, and all players are not allowed to see the information, order of cards, or change the order of cards in the marker area. When a card is put into this area, it is put on top of those already in the marker area. If cards are removed from a marker area, they must be removed, in order, from the top of the zone.
3.7.2.1. There are effects which put cards into the marker area face up. When this occurs, all players are allowed to see the information of those cards placed face up in the marker area.
3.7.2.1.1. When there is an instruction to exchange a card in the marker area and a card on the stage, if both cards are face up, both of those cards are placed face up in the destination zones after the move.
3.7.2.2. If multiple cards are put into the marker area simultaneously due to card effects, they are to be put in any order on top of cards already in the marker area.
3.7.3. When a card is moved from one zone to another, if there are any cards in the marker area underneath that card, the cards in that respective marker area will also be moved together with that card, as stipulated below.
3.7.3.1. When a card in a stage position is moved to another stage position belonging to the same master, move all of the cards in that marker area under the card at the same time with the card to the designated marker area. At this time, should there be markers already in the designated marker area, put all markers in that marker area into the owner’s waiting room.
3.7.3.2. When a card in a stage position is moved to a zone other than another stage position, at the same time, place all cards in the respective marker area under that card into the owner’s waiting room at the same time the card is moved.
3.7.4. When referencing a character on a stage position with markers, that character is called a “character with marker(s)”.

―5―

3.8. Clock 3.8.1. The zone where cards are put into as the game progresses. Generally, cards are put into this zone during the Clock Phase or when a player is dealt damage for any reason. 3.8.2. The clock is a public zone. All cards in this zone are put face up, and all players are allowed to see the information and order of cards. However, players are not allowed to change the order of cards in the clock. When a card is put into this zone, put it on the top of those already in the clock. 3.8.3. When a player has seven (7) or more cards in their clock, by rule action, they must choose one (1) card from among the seven (7) cards from the bottom of their clock, put it to their level, and put the remaining cards into their waiting room in any order. Refer to “Section 9. Rule Action” for more details.
3.9. Level 3.9.1. The zone where cards are put into as the game progresses. Generally, a card is put into this zone when there are seven (7) or more cards in a player’s clock, and they chooses one (1) card from among the seven (7) cards from the bottom of their clock, and puts it into this zone. 3.9.2. While the level is a public zone, there is an exception for some cards in the level, as stipulated below. 3.9.2.1. Unless otherwise specified, all cards in this zone are put face up, and all players are allowed to see the information of face up cards at will. 3.9.2.2. Unless otherwise specified, a player is allowed to see the information of face down cards in their level at will. A player is not allowed to see the information of face down cards in their opponent’s level. 3.9.2.2.1. All cards that are put face down into the level are considered blank cards possessing no information. 3.9.2.2.2. When a face down card in the level is moved to another zone, the card is placed face up or remains face down depending on the zone it is moved to. If the zone it is moved to is a hidden zone, the information of the face down card is not revealed during the move. 3.9.3. Players are not allowed to change the order of face up cards in their own level. When a card is put into this zone, put it on the top of those already in the level. If a player has four or more cards in their level, they fulfill a losing condition.
3.10. Stock 3.10.1. The zone where cards are put into as the game progresses. Generally, you will put cards in this zone after you perform a Trigger Check (7.3.1.2) during your characters’ attacks. 3.10.2. The stock is a hidden zone. All cards in this zone are put face down, and all players are not allowed to see the information or order of

cards, or change the order of cards in the deck. When a card is put into this zone, it is to be put on the top of those already in the stock. If cards are removed from a stock, they must be removed, in order, from the top of the zone.
3.11. Climax Area 3.11.1. The zone where climax cards are placed when they are played during the course of the game. 3.11.2. The climax area is a public zone. All cards in this zone are placed face up. In principle, only one card can be put into this zone. 3.11.3. If a non-climax card is in the climax area, that card is put into its owner’s waiting room as a rule action (9.6.1). 3.11.4. “Climax area” may be written as “CX area” in text.
3.12. Memory 3.12.1. The zone where cards are put into when specifically instructed during the course of the game. “Put a card into your memory” refers to the act of putting said card from another zone into a player’s memory. 3.12.2. While the memory is a public zone, there is an exception for some cards in the memory, as stipulated below. 3.12.2.1. Unless otherwise specified, all cards in this zone are put face up, and all players are allowed to see the information of face up cards at will. Players are allowed to change the order of face up cards in their own memory. 3.12.2.2. Unless otherwise specified, a player is allowed to see the information of face down cards in their memory at will. A player is not allowed to see the information of face down cards in their opponent’s memory. When there are multiple face-down cards in a player’s memory, they must put those cards in a way such that the order in which the cards were placed face down by card effects is clearly understood. 3.12.2.2.1. All cards that are put face down into the memory are considered blank cards possessing no information. However, if a card’s ability explicitly states that it is still active while face down in a player’s memory, that card is considered a card possessing that particular ability. 3.12.2.2.2. When a face down card in the memory is moved to another zone, the card is placed face up or face down depending on the zone it is moved to. If the zone it is moved to is a hidden zone, the information of the face down card is not revealed during the move. 3.12.2.2.3. When face down cards in the memory are shuffled during an effect, as long as it is not explicitly stated that the information of the cards may be seen, or that those cards are revealed, the information of those shuffled cards

―6―

cannot be seen by any player during that effect. 3.12.2.3. Cards in the memory may be referenced simply as “memory”, such as in card text or rules.
3.13. Resolution Zone 3.13.1. The zone where cards are put temporarily while resolving effects or damage as the game progresses. 3.13.1.1. Event cards are put into the resolution zone when played, and then into the owner’s waiting room after its effect is resolved. 3.13.1.2. A card revealed due to a Trigger Check is put into the resolution zone, and then into the owner’s stock in face down position after the effect of the revealed card is resolved. 3.13.1.3. Cards revealed during the Damage Process are put into the resolution zone. If a Damage Cancel takes place, the cards are put into the owner’s waiting room. If it does not take place, the cards are put into the owner’s clock. 3.13.1.3.1. When multiple cards are put into the clock at the same time, all those cards are put at the top of the clock in the same order as they were put into the resolution zone. 3.13.1.4. When cards are put into the resolution zone by a Brainstorm ability (10.7), they are put into the resolution zone temporarily before they are put into the owner’s waiting room. 3.13.2. The resolution zone is a public zone. All cards in this zone are put face up, and all players are allowed to see the information and order of cards. However, players are not allowed to change the order of cards in the resolution zone. When a card is put into this zone, put it on the top of those already in the resolution zone.

Section 4. Basic Concepts
4.1. Abilities and Effects 4.1.1. An ability refers to an instruction generated by a card text or an effect. 4.1.1.1. Abilities are divided into three categories: activated abilities, automatic abilities, and continuous abilities. Refer to “Section 8. Play and Resolve Cards and Abilities” for more details. 4.1.2. An effect refers to the contents of an instruction given by an ability. 4.1.2.1. Effects are divided into three categories: one-shot effects, continuous effects, and replacement effects. Refer to “Section 8. Play and Resolve Cards and Abilities” for more details.
4.2. Owner 4.2.1. The owner is the player who owns the card. 4.2.2. The owner of a card is the player who had it in their deck at the beginning of the game. 4.2.3. At the end of the game, each player retrieves all cards owned by him or her.
4.3. Master 4.3.1. The master is the player who is currently using the card, ability, or an effect. 4.3.2. The master of a card in a zone is the player who the zone belongs to. 4.3.3. The master of an effect is the master of the ability that generates that effect. 4.3.4. The master of an activated ability is the player who played it. 4.3.5. The master of an automatic ability is the master of the card that has that ability, or the master of an effect that created that ability. 4.3.6. The master of a continuous ability is the master of the card that has that ability, or the master of an effect that created that ability.
4.4. Check Timing 4.4.1. The check timing refers to the time that is used to resolve Rule Actions or play automatic abilities. 4.4.2. In a check timing, first resolve all Rule Actions. When there are no more Rule Actions to be resolved, proceed to resolve automatic abilities with fulfilled Trigger Conditions in a Standby Condition. See 8.5 for more details.

4.5. Play Timing 4.5.1. The play timing refers to the time that a player can perform an action. 4.5.2. Whenever a player gets a play timing, just before they choose to do something, there is always a check timing. After all Rule Actions and automatic abilities have been resolved in that check timing, that player gets a play timing. 4.5.3. A player who gets a play timing chooses an action that can be chosen at that time and performs it, or chooses to do nothing.

―7―

4.5.3.1. If they chose an action, after it is resolved, unless otherwise specified, that player gets a play timing again.
4.5.3.2. If they chose to do nothing, the game progresses.
4.6. Card Orientation 4.6.1. Each character on the stage has one of three orientation states. 4.6.1.1. Stand State – cards placed vertically and upright from your perspective. “To stand (a card)” refers to the act of changing the orientation of a card into a stand state. 4.6.1.1.1. In card texts, the word “stand” or “standing” is indicated by a “ ” icon. 4.6.1.2. Rest State – cards placed horizontally. “To rest (a card)” refers to the act of changing the orientation of a card into a rest state. 4.6.1.2.1. In card text, the word “rest” or “resting” is indicated by a “ ” icon. 4.6.1.3. Reverse State – cards placed vertically and upside-down from your perspective. “To reverse (a card)” refers to the act of changing the orientation of a card into a reverse state. 4.6.1.3.1. In card text, the word “reverse” or “reversed” is indicated by a “ ” icon.
4.7. Drawing Cards 4.7.1. When instructed to "draw (specified number) card(s)", the player moves the top card of their deck into their hand.
4.8. Looking at Cards from the Top of Deck 4.8.1. When instructed to "look at the top (specified number) card(s) of your deck" or "look at up to (specified number) card(s) from the top of your deck", the player confirms the information of cards in the deck.
4.9. Revealing Cards from the Top of Deck 4.9.1. When instructed to "reveal the top (specified number) card(s) of your deck" or "reveal up to (specified number) card(s) from the top of your deck", the player displays the information of cards in the deck.
4.10. Damage Process 4.10.1. The Damage Process refers to the act of performing “deal [number] damage (to player)”. This action is done in the following order: 4.10.1.1. The player that received damage puts the top card of their deck face up into their resolution zone. 4.10.1.2. If a climax card is moved to the resolution zone, put all the cards that were moved to the resolution zone by this Damage Process into the waiting room, and end the Damage Process. This is called “Damage Cancel”. 4.10.1.2.1. The occurrence of a Damage Cancel is equivalent to “damage is canceled” on a card text.

4.10.1.3. If [number] cards are moved to the resolution zone by this Damage Process, put all those cards at the top of the clock in the same order as they were put into the resolution zone, and conclude the Damage Process. If not, return to 4.10.1.1.
4.10.2. If a card(s) is moved to the clock from another zone by a process other than “deal damage”, it is not a Damage Process. Therefore, a Damage Cancel will not occur.
4.10.3. When an effect refers to cards put in a specific zone or revealed by an effect, cards revealed or put in any zone during the Damage Process are not included. However, if an effect explicitly refers to cards revealed or moved by damage, that effect refers to those cards.
4.11. Source of Damage 4.11.1. Some effects require identifying where the damage is from. This is called the “source of damage” and is defined as follows: 4.11.1.1. During the Damage Step of an Attack Phase, if a character deals damage to another player (7.5.1.2), the source of damage is that attacking character. 4.11.1.2. If an event card or an effect from an ability possessed by a card deals damage, unless otherwise specified, the source of damage is the event card or the card that possessed said ability. 4.11.1.2.1. In this instance, if the source of damage is the player, the source of damage is the card itself instead.
4.12. Trigger Icon 4.12.1. Each Trigger Icon will have a set of actions specific to the icon. Normally, this action is performed by the turn player during the Trigger Step (7.3). However, some effects such as “perform the effect of (Trigger Icon)” cause the master of the specified effect to perform the action. 4.12.2. Each Trigger Icon and its specific set of actions are as follows:
4.12.2.1. No Icon ( ): No action is performed.
4.12.2.2. Soul Icon ( ): The attacking character gets +1 soul until end of turn. This increment is mandatory.
4.12.2.3. Return Icon ( ): The player executing this action may choose one of their opponent’s characters on the stage and return it to the owner’s hand.
4.12.2.4. Pool Icon ( ): The player executing this action may put the top card of their deck into their stock.
4.12.2.5. Comeback Icon ( ): The player executing this action may choose a character in their waiting room, and return it to their hand.
4.12.2.6. Draw Icon ( ): The player executing this action may draw a card.
4.12.2.7. Shot Icon ( ): The following automatic ability comes in effect.

―8―

“ During this turn, when the next damage dealt by the attacking character is canceled, deal one damage to your opponent.” 4.12.2.7.1. After this automatic ability is
triggered via the Trigger Step, if, for any reason, damage is dealt by the attacking character before the Damage Step (7.5.1.2), and that damage is canceled, this automatic ability’s Trigger Condition will be fulfilled. Following this, even if that damage is not canceled, and damage dealt by the attacking character during the Damage Step is canceled, this automatic ability’s Trigger Condition will not be fulfilled. 4.12.2.7.2. This automatic ability is not limited to damage that a player deals to their opponent. In the event that the player deals damage to himself or herself, this automatic ability’s Trigger Condition will also be fulfilled. 4.12.2.7.3. If, for any reason, the next damage dealt by the character is directed at multiple players simultaneously, if the damage dealt to either player is canceled, this ability’s Trigger Condition is fulfilled. Furthermore, if multiple damage dealt to multiple players is canceled, this automatic ability will have its Trigger Condition fulfilled only once.
4.12.2.8. Treasure Icon ( ): Return the card with this icon to its owner’s hand. Then, the player executing this action may put the top card of their deck into their stock.
4.12.2.8.1. Return of this card to the owner’s hand is a mandatory action. This causes the card’s zone to be changed, therefore this card will not be moved to the player’s stock.
4.12.2.9. Gate Icon ( ): The player executing this action may choose a climax in their waiting room, and return it to their hand.
4.12.2.10. Standby Icon ( ): The player executing this action may choose a character with a level equal to or less than their level +1 in their waiting room, and put it on any position of their stage in the Rest State ( ).
4.12.2.10.1. The player may put the chosen character on a stage position that already has a character on it. In that case, in accordance with the rules for Resolving Multiple Characters (9.6), the character that was already on stage will be put into the waiting room.
4.12.2.11. Choice Icon ( ): The player executing this action may choose a
character with a soul icon ( ) in its trigger icon in their waiting room, and return it to their hand or move it to their stock.

Section 5. Setting Up the Game
5.1. Deck Preparation 5.1.1. Each player prepares their own deck before the game. 5.1.2. Deck Construction 5.1.2.1. A deck must contain exactly fifty (50) cards. 5.1.2.2. A deck can only contain up to four (4) copies of each card with the same card name. 5.1.2.2.1. Even if any information other than the card name is different, insofar as two or more cards have the same card name, they are considered cards with the same card name, and only up to four (4) copies of said card can be put into a deck. 5.1.2.3. A deck must contain eight (8) or less climax cards. Furthermore, these cards must abide by the “up to four (4) copies of each card with the same card name” rule, as stated above (5.1.2.2). 5.1.2.4. If a card has a continuous ability regarding deck construction, the deck construction rules stated above are substituted by the relevant card text. Refer to “Section 8. Play and Resolve Cards and Abilities” for more details.
5.2. Game Preparation 5.2.1. Before the start of each game, prepare for the game as follows: 5.2.1.1. Each player presents the deck they will use for this game to their opponent. The deck will need to fulfill the Deck Construction rules (5.1) at this point. 5.2.1.2. Each player adequately shuffles their deck. Then, each player may shuffle their opponent's deck. Then, each player puts their deck face down on their deck zone. 5.2.1.3. Randomly determine which player goes first. 5.2.1.3.1. The determination of the starting player, cannot be mediated in any way. The player who is chosen by the random method, is not allowed to decide which player will be the starting player. 5.2.1.4. Each player draws five (5) cards from their deck, which forms the initial hand. Then, beginning from the starting player, each player chooses any number of cards in their hand, puts them into their own waiting room, and draws an equal number of cards. This can only be performed one time per player. 5.2.1.5. The starting player begins the game as the turn player.

―9―

Section 6. Game Procedure
6.1. Turn Procedure 6.1.1. During a game, players take turns in progressing the game as the turn player. The turn player performs actions in order of phases stated below. This sequence of phases is collectively called a turn.
6.2. Stand Phase 6.2.1. The phase in which the turn player stands characters that they is a master of. This phase is executed in the order as follows: 6.2.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of turn” and “at the beginning of stand phase” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. 6.2.1.2. The turn player stands all of their characters on their stage. 6.2.1.3. A check timing occurs. After completing all necessary actions in this check timing, advance to the Draw Phase.
6.3. Draw Phase 6.3.1. The phase in which the turn player draws a card from their deck. This phase is executed in the order as follows: 6.3.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of draw phase” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. 6.3.1.2. The turn player draws a card. 6.3.1.3. A check timing occurs. After completing all necessary actions in this check timing, advance to the Clock Phase.
6.4. Clock Phase 6.4.1. The phase in which the turn player can add cards to their clock. This phase is executed in the order as follows: 6.4.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of clock phase” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. 6.4.1.2. The turn player may choose a card from their hand, and put it into their clock. If they does so, they draws 2 cards. 6.4.1.3. A check timing occurs. After completing all necessary actions in this check timing, advance to the Main Phase.
6.5. Main Phase 6.5.1. The phase in which the turn player can perform several actions. This phase is executed in the order as follows: 6.5.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of main phase” is fulfilled. 6.5.1.2. The turn player gets a play timing (and the accompanying check timing preceding it). In this play timing, the turn player can do any of the actions stated below, in any order and any number of times, as long as the cost can be paid. 6.5.1.2.1. The turn player can choose one of their stage positions, and play a character card from their hand onto the designated stage position. The played

character is placed on the designated stage position. 6.5.1.2.2. The turn player can choose an event card in their hand and play it. The played event card is put into the player’s resolution zone, and then put into the owner’s waiting room after the effect has been resolved. 6.5.1.2.3. The turn player can choose to play any of their valid activated abilities. 6.5.1.2.4. The turn player can choose two stage positions, and exchange the cards placed on those stage positions. If there are cards in both stage positions, those cards are placed on the respective stage positions simultaneously. If one of the stage positions does not have any cards in it, the card in the other stage position is placed on the open stage position. If both stage positions have no characters in them, nothing happens. 6.5.1.3. When the turn player chooses to do nothing during their play timing, advance to the Climax Phase.
6.6. Climax Phase 6.6.1. The phase in which the turn player can place cards in their climax area. This phase is executed in the order as follows: 6.6.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of climax phase” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. 6.6.1.2. The turn player gets a play timing (and the accompanying check timing preceding it). 6.6.1.2.1. At this time, the only cards that the turn player can play are climax from their hand. 6.6.1.2.2. If the turn player takes any action during this play timing, they will not get another play timing. The turn player is allowed to play only one (1) climax during this step. 6.6.1.3. A check timing occurs. After completing all necessary actions in this check timing, advance to the Attack Phase. 6.6.2. “Climax phase” may be written as “CX phase” in text.
6.7. Attack Phase 6.7.1. The phase in which the turn player can attack their opponent with characters that they is the master of. Refer to “Section 7. Attack and Battle” for more details.
6.8. End Phase 6.8.1. The phase in which several actions are resolved at the end of a turn. This phase is executed in the order as follows: 6.8.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the end of turn” is fulfilled. Automatic abilities with this phrase fulfill the Trigger Condition and enters a Standby Condition. A check timing occurs.

― 10 ―

6.8.1.2. If the number of cards in the turn player’s hand exceeds the limit (3.3.3.1), they must choose cards equal to the number of cards exceeding the limit, and put them into their waiting room.
6.8.1.3. If there is a card on the turn player’s climax area, they puts it into their waiting room.
6.8.1.4. A check timing occurs. After completing all necessary actions in this check timing, all effects that have specified duration of “until end of turn” or “during turn” are invalidated.
6.8.1.5. At this point, if the number of cards in the turn player’s hand does not exceed the limit, there are no automatic abilities or Rule Actions to resolve during the check timing as stipulated in 6.8.1.4, and there are no “at the end of turn” Trigger Conditions or any other Trigger Conditions of automatic abilities that have not yet been fulfilled, the opponent of the current turn player becomes the turn player, and play advances to the Stand Phase of the next turn. This turn ends. Otherwise, return to the beginning of the End Phase.

Section 7. Attack and Battle
7.1. General 7.1.1. In the Attack Phase, the turn player may perform an attack on their opponent with their characters in a Stand State on their center stage. The Attack Phase progresses by executing a sequence of steps beginning from the Attack Declaration Step. 7.1.2. The series of steps from the Attack Declaration Step to the Battle Step (or up to the Damage Step, if the Battle Step is not executed) is called the “Attack Sub-Phase”.
7.2. Attack Declaration Step 7.2.1. The step in which the turn player chooses whether or not to declare an attack, and with which character(s). This step is executed in the order as follows: 7.2.1.1. If this is the first Attack Declaration Step of this turn, the Trigger Condition “at the beginning of attack phase” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. 7.2.1.2. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of attack declaration step” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. 7.2.1.3. The turn player can perform any of the following. 7.2.1.3.1. Choose one (1) character that is able to attack, and that character becomes the attacking character for that attack. 7.2.1.3.1.1 Unless otherwise specified by card effects which changes whether a character is able to perform an attack, any character in a Stand State on your center stage can be chosen to perform an attack. 7.2.1.3.1.2 During the Attack Phase of the first turn of the starting player, if the turn player is already in an Attack Sub-Phase and wishes to conduct another Attack Sub-Phase, the turn player cannot choose another character capable of performing an attack. 7.2.1.3.1.3 If for any reason a character capable of performing an attack cannot be chosen, the turn player cannot choose to perform this action. 7.2.1.3.2. Choose to end the Attack Phase. At the end of this Attack Sub-Phase, progress immediately to the encore step. (7.7) 7.2.1.4. The turn player chooses the type of attack for the chosen character. 7.2.1.4.1. Direct Attack: If there are no battle opponent characters facing the chosen character, the type of attack automatically becomes a Direct Attack. The chosen character gets +1 soul until end of turn. 7.2.1.4.2. Frontal Attack / Side Attack: If there is a battle opponent character facing the chosen character, the turn

― 11 ―

player chooses either a Frontal Attack or Side Attack as the type of attack. If a Side Attack is chosen, and if the level of the character facing the chosen character is more than zero (0), the chosen character gets -X soul until end of turn. X is equal to the level of the character facing the chosen character. 7.2.1.4.3. After the type of attack has been chosen, even if the character facing the chosen card undergoes any change, the type of attack and the corresponding increase or decrease in soul does not change. For example, if a Side Attack is declared for a character, even if, for any reason, the character facing the chosen card returns to its owner’s hand, the attack remains as a Side Attack, as well as the soul reduction (if any). 7.2.1.5. From this point onwards, for the duration of this Attack Sub-Phase, as long as the chosen character is not moved from its current zone to another zone, the chosen character becomes the attacking character, enters the “attacked” state, and is henceforth referred to as the “(direct/frontal/side) attacking character”. 7.2.1.5.1. If a Frontal Attack was chosen, as long as the character facing the attacking character is not moved from its current zone to another zone, that character becomes the defending character, and is henceforth referred to as the character “that is (being) frontal attacked”. For the duration of this Attack Sub-Phase, both the attacking character and the defending character are referred to as characters “in battle”. The attacking character and the defending character are also referred to as each other’s “battle opponent”. 7.2.1.5.2. If a Frontal Attack or Side Attack was chosen, as long as the character facing the attacking character is not moved from its current zone to another zone, the character facing the attacking character enters a state of “being attacked” for the duration of this Attack Sub-Phase. 7.2.1.5.3. Put the chosen character in the Rest State ( ). 7.2.1.6. A check timing occurs. After completing all necessary actions in this check timing, advance to the Trigger Step.
7.3. Trigger Step 7.3.1. The step in which any additional effects during the attack of an attacking character are checked for. This step is executed in the order as follows: 7.3.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of Trigger Step” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. 7.3.1.2. The turn player puts the top card of their deck face up into the resolution zone, and

executes the actions associated with the Trigger Icons (4.12) that card possesses at this time. 7.3.1.2.1. If this card possesses multiple
Trigger Icons, execute the actions associated with them in any order you wish. 7.3.1.2.2. Even if this card gains or loses Trigger Icons after this card was put in the resolution zone, only the actions associated with the Trigger Icons this card possessed when it was put in the resolution zone will be executed. Actions associated with Trigger Icons that this card gained after it was put in the resolution zone are not executed, and even if this card loses a Trigger Icon that it possessed when it was put in the resolution zone after it was put, the action associated with that Trigger Icon are executed. 7.3.1.2.3. Put the card that was put in the resolution zone face down into stock. The series of actions from putting this card in the resolution zone to putting it into the stock is referred to as a “Trigger Check”. 7.3.1.2.3.1 When abilities or effects refer
to “this card’s trigger check”, it refers to “the trigger checks performed for this card’s attack”. Similarly, when they refer to “your character’s trigger check”, it refers to “the trigger checks performed for your characters’ attacks”. 7.3.1.3. A check timing occurs. After completing all necessary actions in this check timing, if the type of attack is a Frontal Attack, advance to the Counter Step. Otherwise, advance to the Damage Step.
7.4. Counter Step 7.4.1. The step in which the opponent of the turn player responds to the turn player’s Frontal Attack. This step is executed in the order as follows: 7.4.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of counter step” is fulfilled. 7.4.1.2. The opponent of the turn player gets a play timing (and the accompanying check timing preceding it). 7.4.1.2.1. At this point, the opponent of the turn player is allowed to play only either event cards or character abilities with the Counter Icon ( ). 7.4.1.2.2. During this play timing, if the opponent of the turn player performs any action, they does not get another play timing. During this step, that player is allowed to play only one (1) card or activated ability. 7.4.1.3. A check timing occurs. After completing all necessary actions in this check timing, advance to the Damage Step.

― 12 ―

7.5. Damage Step 7.5.1. The step in which the opponent of the turn player receives damage from the attacking character. This step is executed in the order as follows: 7.5.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of damage step” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. 7.5.1.2. If an attacking character exists, that character deals damage to the opponent of the turn player equal to the soul of the attacking character. 7.5.1.2.1. If, for any reason, the soul of the attacking character is zero (0) or less, that attacking character does not deal any damage. There is no such thing as “deal 0 (or negative) damage”. 7.5.1.2.2. If, for any reason, the attacking character ceases to exist, or the character’s master is changed, that attacking character does not deal any damage. 7.5.1.3. A check timing occurs. After resolving all necessary actions in this check timing, if the type of attack is a Frontal Attack, advance to the Battle Step (7.6). Otherwise, proceed to 7.5.1.4. 7.5.1.4. The Trigger Condition "at the end of the attack” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. After resolving all necessary actions in this check timing, end this Attack Sub-Phase, and return to the Attack Declaration Step.
7.6. Battle Step 7.6.1. The step in which the battle between a frontal attacking character and the corresponding defending character is resolved. This step is executed in the order as follows: 7.6.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of battle step” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. 7.6.1.2. At this point, if both an attacking character and a defending character exists, the power of both characters is compared against each other, and the character with lower power will be put into the Reverse State ( ). If both characters have equal power, put both characters into the Reverse State. 7.6.1.3. If, for any reason, the attacking character or the defending character ceases to exist, or either character’s master is changed, the characters’ powers are not compared, and neither character is put into the Reverse State. 7.6.1.4. A check timing occurs. After resolving all necessary actions in this check timing, proceed to 7.6.1.5. 7.6.1.5. The Trigger Condition "at the end of the attack” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. After completing all necessary actions in this check timing, end this Attack SubPhase, and return to the Attack Declaration Step.

7.7. Encore Step 7.7.1. The step in which characters in the Reverse State ( ) are put into the waiting room. This step is executed in the order as follows: 7.7.1.1. The Trigger Condition “at the beginning of encore step” is fulfilled. A check timing occurs. 7.7.1.2. If the turn player has any characters on their stage in the Reverse State, the turn player chooses one (1) of those characters, puts it into its owner’s waiting room, a check timing occurs, and after resolving all necessary actions in this check timing, executes 7.7.1.2 again. 7.7.1.3. If the non-turn player has any characters on their stage in the Reverse State, the non-turn player chooses one (1) of those characters, puts it into its owner’s waiting room, a check timing occurs, and after resolving all necessary actions in this check timing, executes 7.7.1.2 again. 7.7.1.4. A check timing occurs. After completing all necessary actions in this check timing, if there are characters on either players’ stage in the Reverse State, return to 7.7.1.2. Otherwise, advance to the End Phase (6.8).

― 13 ―

Section 8. Play and Resolve Cards and Abilities
8.1. Categories of Abilities 8.1.1. Abilities are divided into three categories: activated abilities, automatic abilities, and continuous abilities. 8.1.1.1. Activated abilities refer to abilities that can be executed by a player with a play timing by paying the cost (8.4). 8.1.1.1.1. On a card, activated abilities are written as “ [(Cost)] (Effect)”. Text enclosed by [ ] refers to the Cost of playing that activated ability, followed by text that refers to the effect that occurs as a result of resolving that activated ability. 8.1.1.1.2. “When (player) uses an activated ability” refers to “when (player) finishes paying the cost for an activated ability”. 8.1.1.2. Automatic abilities refer to abilities that are automatically played as a result of a designated situation that occurs during the game. 8.1.1.2.1. On a card, automatic abilities are written as “ When (Condition), (Effect)”, or “ At the beginning of (Phase or Step), (Effect)” or “At the end of (Phase or Step), (Effect)”. The situations specified by (Condition) and (Phase or Step) are known as “Trigger Condition”, and fulfilling a Trigger Condition is known as “triggering (that ability)” or “activating (that ability)”. 8.1.1.2.2. Instead of being written as “ (Text)”, some automatic abilities are written as “ [(Cost)] (Text)”. This refers to an instance where, during the resolution of the automatic ability, a cost may be paid following the instructions of the text (8.7.3). 8.1.1.3. Continuous abilities refer to abilities which remain in effect for the specified duration that that ability is in effect. 8.1.1.3.1. On a card, continuous abilities are written as “ (Effect)”. 8.1.1.4. The icons that reflect an ability’s
category ( , , ) are collectively
known as “Ability Category Icons”.
8.2. Categories of Effects 8.2.1. Effects are divided into three categories: “one-shot effects”, “continuous effects”, and “replacement effects”. 8.2.1.1. “One-shot effects” refer to effects that resolve by executing that action, and ending the effect thereafter. For example, effects generated by abilities such as “draw a card” or “put this character into the waiting room” are one-shot effects. 8.2.1.2. “Continuous effects” refer to effects that remain in effect for a specified duration (including “during this game”, for effects with no specified duration). For example, effects generated by abilities such as “all of your characters in front of this card get

+500 power” or “this card gets +1 soul until end of turn” are continuous effects. 8.2.1.3. “Replacement effects” refer to effects that replace the execution of an existing situation during the game with the execution of another situation instead. 8.2.1.3.1. If an ability is written as “if (player)
would do A, do B instead”, the effect generated by that ability is a replacement effect. 8.2.1.3.2. If an ability is written as “if (player) would do A, (player) may [Choice] instead”, the effect generated by that ability is an optional replacement effect.
8.3. Active Effects and Inactive Effects 8.3.1. Some effects make an effect “active” or “inactive”. If this case, resolve the ability as follows: 8.3.2. If all or part of an effect becomes inactive under a specific condition, under said condition, that part exists as an ability, but no effects are generated. If that effect required a choice to be made, no choice is made. 8.3.3. If all or part of an effect becomes active under a specific condition, in the state where said condition is not fulfilled, that part is inactive.
8.4. Cost and Paying Cost 8.4.1. Some activated or automatic abilities contain an action(s) enclosed within [ ] at the beginning of the text, which are known as the cost of that ability. 8.4.2. “Pay the cost” refers to “execute the action(s) stipulated in the cost”. 8.4.2.1. If there are multiple actions in the cost, execute the actions in order, starting with the action closest to the beginning of the text. However, between the beginning and the end of paying a cost, refresh resolution (9.2) and level up resolution (9.3) do not occur. 8.4.2.2. If the whole cost (or part thereof) cannot be paid, absolutely no part of the cost to play this ability is paid. 8.4.3. If a number enclosed within a circle is indicated in an ability’s cost or text, this refers to “the master of this card or ability puts X (and only X) cards from their stock into their waiting room. X is equal to the number indicated”. Similarly, if card text instructs a player to pay a number enclosed within a circle, this refers to “the designated player puts X (and only X) cards from their stock into their waiting room”.
8.5. Check Timing/Play Timing, Abilities, and Effects 8.5.1. When a check timing occurs, the game advances in the order as follows: 8.5.1.1. All Rule Actions that must be resolved at this point are simultaneously resolved. If, as a result, there are new Rule Actions to be resolved, this step is repeated insofar

― 14 ―

as there are Rule Actions remaining to be resolved. 8.5.1.2. If there are automatic abilities in a Standby Condition that the turn player is a master of, the turn player chooses one (1) ability among them, plays and resolves it, and returns to 8.5.1.1. 8.5.1.3. If there are automatic abilities in a Standby Condition that the non-turn player is a master of, the non-turn player chooses one (1) ability among them, plays and resolves it, and returns to 8.5.1.1. 8.5.1.4. The check timing ends. 8.5.2. When a player gets a play timing, the game advances in the order as follows: 8.5.2.1. A check timing occurs. Resolve the check timing. 8.5.2.2. Only at this point does that player get a play timing. At this point, that player executes any action that is allowed, or chooses to do nothing. If that player executes an action, unless otherwise specified, that player gets another play timing after this play timing. 8.5.2.3. If the player that gets a play timing chooses to do nothing, the play timing ends, and the Phase or Step advances.
8.6. Playing and Resolving 8.6.1. Activated abilities, automatic abilities, and cards in hand need to be played and resolved to generate its effect. Continuous abilities are not played, as the effect is always in effect. 8.6.2. A player plays a card or an ability as follows: 8.6.2.1. The player designates an ability, or card in their hand to play. If what is designated is a card in their hand (as opposed to an ability), that card is allowed to be played and consequently revealed only if both that card’s color requirement and level requirement are fulfilled. 8.6.2.1.1. The color requirement requires that the color of the played card be of the same color of at least one card in that player’s level or clock. A card cannot be played if the color requirement is not fulfilled. 8.6.2.1.1.1 Level 0 characters and level 0 event cards do not need to fulfill the color requirement to be played. 8.6.2.1.2. The level requirement requires the level of the card being played to be equal to or lower than the number of cards in that player’s level. A card cannot be played if the level requirement is not fulfilled. 8.6.2.1.2.1 Climax cards do not have to fulfill a level requirement to be played. 8.6.2.2. If the card or ability requires the player to make any choices, they makes that choice. 8.6.2.2.1. If what is played is a character from the player’s hand, they chooses one (1) of their stage positions.

8.6.2.3. If there is a cost for the card to be played, the player determines the cost, and pays the cost in full.
8.6.2.3.1. If what is played is a card or an activated ability, the player pays the stipulated cost.
8.6.2.3.2. If the player is unable to pay the cost in full, they cannot play that card or ability. Players are not allowed to pay for only a part of a cost.
8.6.2.4. The situation of this card or ability being “played” occurs at this point.
8.6.2.5. Resolve the card or ability. 8.6.2.5.1. If what is played is a character card, that character is placed on the chosen stage position. If another character is already on that stage position, the character that was already on stage will be put into the waiting room by Rule Action. 8.6.2.5.2. If what is played is an event card, that event card is put on the player’s resolution zone, and subsequently put into its owner’s waiting room after the effect has been executed. 8.6.2.5.3. If what is played is a climax card, that climax card is placed on the player’s climax area. 8.6.2.5.4. If what is played is an activated ability or an automatic ability, the effect of that ability is executed.
8.6.3. If a card or an ability states “choose”, during resolution, the player chooses an appropriate card(s) or player(s), et cetera, (henceforth referred to as “targets”) among the choices presented at the point where the instruction was given.
8.6.3.1. If the number of choices is specified, the player must choose as many targets as possible up to the specified number. If a player can make a choice, that player is not allowed to not make a choice.
8.6.3.1.1. If the number of choices is specified by “choose up to”, the player may choose any number of targets from zero (0) up to the specified number of choices.
8.6.3.1.2. If the number of choices is specified, but it is impossible to make that many choices, the player chooses as many targets as possible, and applies the relevant effects on those targets.
8.6.3.1.3. If the number of choices is specified, and no targets can be chosen, no target is chosen. All effects relating to that target are ignored.
8.6.3.1.4. If the targets are unrevealed cards in a hidden zone, and if the information of the card(s) is required to fulfill the condition(s) of the choice, it is not guaranteed that those cards in the hidden zone possess that information. Even if there are cards in that zone that

― 15 ―

fulfill the condition(s), the player is not allowed to choose those cards. 8.6.4. If an effect has “You may do (Action A). If you did do (Action A), do (Action B). If you did not do (Action A), do (Action C)”, the latter portion of “If you did not do (Action A), do (Action C)” is only performed if you could not, or chose not to, perform Action A when you were to choose whether to perform Action A. 8.6.4.1. “If you did do (Action A)” and “If you did not do (Action A)” may be written in text as “If you did” and “If you did not” respectively. 8.6.5. When a card is played or performed, if it does not clearly indicate who should perform the process, the master of that card, ability, or effect performs it. 8.6.6. If a card’s information is revealed or looked at by any player by an effect, at the end of the resolution of that effect, that card stops being revealed or returns to its state before being looked at. 8.6.6.1. If that card moves to another zone, a choice to leave it in its original position in that zone was made, or its order was changed such as by a shuffle before the resolution of that effect has ended, the process of being revealed or being looked at ends for only that card.
8.7. Resolving Automatic Abilities 8.7.1. Automatic abilities refer to abilities that are played during the check timing that occurs as a result of fulfilling a specified Trigger Condition(s). 8.7.2. When any automatic ability’s Trigger Condition(s) is fulfilled, that automatic ability enters a Standby Condition. 8.7.2.1. When an automatic ability’s Trigger Condition(s) is fulfilled multiple times, that automatic ability enters a Standby Condition an equal number of times. 8.7.3. At the stage when a check timing occurs, the player who wishes to play an automatic ability chooses one (1) of the automatic abilities in a Standby Condition that they is a master of, and plays it. After the played ability is resolved, one (1) occurrence of that ability’s Standby Condition is extinguished. 8.7.3.1. Players must play all automatic abilities in a Standby Condition; players are not allowed to choose not to play any automatic abilities in a Standby Condition. However, when an automatic ability that the player is a master of enters a Standby Condition multiple times, the player can choose their order of resolution. 8.7.3.2. If, for any reason, the chosen automatic ability in a Standby Condition cannot be played, one (1) occurrence of that automatic ability’s Standby Condition is extinguished. 8.7.3.2.1. If an automatic ability can be played upon paying a cost, and a player chooses not to pay the cost, and consequently, not play the ability, one

(1) occurrence of that automatic ability’s Standby Condition is extinguished. 8.7.4. Some cards possess automatic abilities with Trigger Condition(s) that are fulfilled upon moving that card to another zone. This is known as “zone change Trigger Condition”. 8.7.4.1. Some automatic abilities with zone change Trigger Condition(s) require the information of the card that activated that ability. In that instance, look up the information as follows: 8.7.4.1.1. If it is an automatic ability that requires information from a card when the card is moved from a public zone to a hidden zone, or from a hidden zone to a public zone, use the information available when said card is/was in the public zone. 8.7.4.1.2. If it is an automatic ability that requires information from a card when the card is moved from the stage to another zone, or one that accompanies a zone change that also changes the card’s master, use the information available when said card was on the stage. 8.7.4.1.3. If it is an automatic ability that requires information from a card when the card is moved from a public zone to another public zone (except as outlined in 8.7.4.1.2), use the information available in the zone after said card has moved. 8.7.5. Some effects create automatic abilities which possess Trigger Conditions that are fulfilled at a later point in the game. This is known as “timed Trigger Condition”. 8.7.5.1. Timed Trigger Conditions, unless otherwise specified, fulfill a Trigger Condition(s) only one (1) time. 8.7.6. Some automatic abilities possess Trigger Conditions that are fulfilled not when a specified event occurs, but when a specified condition is fulfilled (such as “if there are no cards in your hand”). This is known as “state Trigger Condition”. 8.7.6.1. When the state Trigger Condition is fulfilled, automatic abilities with state activation enter a Standby Condition only one (1) time. After this automatic ability is resolved, if that ability’s Trigger Condition(s) is fulfilled, that ability enters a Standby Condition again. 8.7.7. When an automatic ability in a Standby Condition is played, if the zone of the card that possessed that ability is changed, that automatic ability must still be played. However, if the effect of that automatic ability cannot be executed as a result of the change in the zone of the card, that effect fails to resolve.
8.8. Resolving One-Time Effects 8.8.1. When a one-time effect is required to be executed, the action that is instructed is executed one (1) time.

― 16 ―

8.9. Resolving Continuous Effects 8.9.1. If a card’s information is required when any continuous effects that require said information are in effect, the continuous effect is applied on that information in the order as follows: 8.9.1.1. Information that is written on the card is the base value. 8.9.1.2. Next, all continuous effects that do not change the value of the information are applied. 8.9.1.3. Next, all continuous effects that change the value of the information are applied.
Example: If a character that has the ability “ Assist All of your characters in front of this card get +500 power if that character’s power is 3000 or less.” is behind Character A (3000 Power), Character A’s power becomes 3500. With this, the application of this effect ends.
8.9.1.4. If the order of application of Continuous Effect A and Continuous Effect B is not determined by 8.9.1.1 – 8.9.1.3, if the application of Effect A affects what Effect B is applied on or how it is applied, Effect B is an effect that is dependent on Effect A. An effect that is dependent on any other effect is always resolved after the effect it is dependent on is resolved.
Example: If there is a card with “ Assist All of your characters in front of this card get 《Corps》.” and a card with “ Assist All of your 《Corps》 characters in front of this card get “ Encore [Put a character from your hand into your waiting room]”.” behind Character A, which is in the middle position of your center stage, regardless of the order in which those two cards were placed, Character A possesses the Encore ability that is added by Assist.
8.9.1.5. If the order of application of multiple continuous effects are not determined by 8.9.1.1 – 8.9.1.4, those continuous effects are applied in the order that they were generated.
8.9.1.5.1. If the source of activation of a continuous effect is a continuous ability, the time when the card possessing that ability is placed on its current zone is its fundamental order. However, for continuous effects of continuous abilities belonging to characters that are on a stage position, the time when that character was placed in its current stage position from another zone becomes its fundamental order.
8.9.1.5.2. For all other abilities, the time when the ability is played is its fundamental order.

Example: If you have on your center stage, Character A with 3000 power, and behind it a character with the ability “ Assist All of your characters in front of this card get +500 power.”, Character A’s power becomes 3500. Under these circumstances, if an event card with card text “Choose one of your characters, and that character’s power becomes 0 until end of turn.” is played and Character A is chosen as the target of the effect, Character’s A power becomes 0 until end of turn.
8.9.2. Continuous effects resulting from Trigger Conditions other than continuous abilities will not apply to cards that move from one zone to another after that ability has been played, except if they are moved from one stage position to another.
Example: If, after playing an event with card text “All of your characters get +1000 power until end of turn.”, a player plays a character with 3000 power from their hand and puts it on a stage position, that character’s power remains as 3000.
8.9.3. If a continuous effect changes the information of a card in a specified zone, the change is applied on said card the instant it enters that zone.
8.9.3.1. If the Trigger Condition of an automatic ability is a card possessing specified information entering a specified zone, the information is referred to only after the continuous effect for that zone has been applied.
8.10. Resolving Replacement Effects 8.10.1. When a replacement effect is generated, if there is a situation that would have occurred otherwise, it does not occur, and is replaced by another situation stated by the replacement effect. 8.10.1.1. In so doing, the original situation that would have resulted otherwise, does not occur at all due to the replacement effect. 8.10.2. If multiple replacement effects are generated simultaneously by the same situation, the player receiving the consequences of those effects makes the decision as to which effects are applied first. 8.10.2.1. If the consequence affects a card or an ability, its respective master makes the decision. 8.10.2.2. If the consequence affects an action during the game, the player that executes that action or the master of the card that applies that action makes the decision. 8.10.2.3. For the same situation, each replacement effect is applied a maximum of one (1) time. 8.10.2.4. If there are multiple replacement effects pertaining to attack types (7.2.1.4),

― 17 ―

the turn player’s replacement effect is applied first, followed by the non-turn player’s replacement effect.
Example: The turn player has a character with the ability “ If this card would attack, you may choose 1 character in your opponent’s back stage, and this card frontal attacks that character as the defending character instead.”, while the non-turn player has a character with “ Great Performance (When your opponent attacks, if this card is in the middle position of your center stage and not 【REVERSE】, your opponent frontal attacks this card instead)” in the middle position of their center stage. In this scenario, the replacement effect of the turn player is first applied, followed by the replacement effect of the non-turn player, thus resulting in the turn player’s character frontal attacking the non-turn player’s character with Great Performance.
8.10.3. If the replacement effect is a choice-type replacement effect (“when …, (the player) may …. instead. If they does, do …), if that choice cannot be made, this replacement effect is not applied.
8.11. Final Information 8.11.1. If an effect references a specified card’s information and/or State, and if the specified card is moved from one zone to another (except a movement from one stage position to another) while that effect is being performed, that effect references the information and/or State of the card as when that card was last in that zone. 8.11.2. If a character in battle performed a movement of zones (including movement from one stage position to another) after an automatic ability was triggered but before that effect resolves, that those characters were battle opponents before that effect resolved is referenced as final information for that effect.

Section 9. Rule Action
9.1. General 9.1.1. “Rule Action” is a collective term referring to a resolution automatically executed in accordance with the rules when a specified event has occurred or is occurring during the game. 9.1.2. Rule Actions are classified as two types: interrupt type Rule Actions, and check type Rule Actions. 9.1.2.1. Rule Actions classified as interrupt type Rule Actions are executed when a specified condition(s) is met during the game, suspending all actions being executed without exception, executing itself immediately. 9.1.2.1.1. When multiple interrupt type Rule Actions are to be executed simultaneously, they are resolved in the order as follows: 9.1.2.1.1.1 If there are multiple masters of the card(s) or zone(s) related to those Rule Actions, the turn player executes all interrupt type Rule Actions that are related to their own cards or zones first, followed by the non-turn player. 9.1.2.1.1.2 If the same player is required to execute multiple Rule Actions related to cards or zones that they is a master of, they chooses which order to execute those Rule Actions in. 9.1.2.2. Rule Actions classified as check type Rule Actions are executed only when a specified condition(s) is fulfilled during a check timing. Even if the condition(s) is fulfilled during the resolution of another action, if that condition(s) is not fulfilled during the check timing, this Rule Action does not happen. 9.1.2.2.1. When multiple check type Rule Actions are to be executed simultaneously, all those Rule Actions are executed simultaneously.

8.12. Climax Combo Icon

8.12.1. Immediately after an Ability Category Icon

( , , ), there may be a Climax

Combo Icon (

). This is an icon to

indicate that that ability is one that is related to

a climax with a specified card name. This icon

has no special meaning in terms of rules per

se.

9.2. Refresh Resolution 9.2.1. The refresh resolution is executed when there are no cards in a player’s deck. This is an interrupt type Rule Action. 9.2.2. The player with no cards in their deck immediately moves all of the cards in their waiting room to their deck, and shuffles the deck. Then, that player puts the top card of their deck into their clock. 9.2.2.1. At the point when there are no cards in the deck, if there are no cards in that player’s waiting room, that player is in the middle of a damage process, and there are no climax in that player’s resolution zone, that player loses the game immediately instead. Otherwise, the resolution of the refresh resolution ends instead. In this case, a new refresh resolution will not be

― 18 ―

performed until there are cards in the waiting room when there are no cards in the deck. 9.2.3. Refresh resolutions are not resolved during the period from the beginning to the end of the payment of a cost (8.4.2). 9.2.4. The execution of a refresh resolution is also known as “refresh(ing)” in card texts and rules, et cetera.
9.3. Level Up Resolution 9.3.1. The level up resolution is executed when the number of cards in a player’s clock is seven (7) or more. This is an interrupt type Rule Action. 9.3.2. The player with seven (7) or more cards in their clock chooses one (1) card from the seven (7) cards from the bottom of their clock. The chosen card is moved to their level, and the remaining six (6) cards are moved to their own waiting room in any order. 9.3.3. A level up is not resolved from the beginning to the end of the payment of a cost (8.4.2).
9.4. Losing Verdict Resolution 9.4.1. At the beginning of a Rule Action, if any player fulfills any of the losing conditions stipulated below, all players that fulfill the losing condition lose the game. This is a check type Rule Action. 9.4.1.1. If a player has four (4) or more cards in their level, that player fulfills a losing condition of the game. 9.4.1.2. If a player has no cards in their deck and their waiting room, that player fulfills a losing condition of the game.
9.5. Resolution of Character with Insufficient Power 9.5.1. If a character’s power is zero (0) or lower, that character is moved to the waiting room of that character’s owner. This is a check type Rule Action.
9.6. Resolution of Illegal Cards in Zones 9.6.1. If a non-character card is on a stage position, or a non-climax card is in the climax area, it is put into its owner’s waiting room. This is a check type Rule Action. 9.6.2. When multiple characters are placed on a stage position, or when multiple climax cards are placed on a climax area, all of those cards on that zone, other than the card that was placed last, are put into their owner’s waiting room. This is a check type Rule Action. 9.6.2.1. If there are multiple cards that were placed last, all those cards are put into their owner’s waiting room.
9.7. Resolution of an Unaffiliated Marker 9.7.1. If, for any reason, a marker area has cards in it while its corresponding stage position has no characters on it, all cards in that marker area are put into their respective owner’s waiting room. This is a check type Rule Action.

Section 10. Keywords and Keyword Abilities
10.1. Alarm 10.1.1. Alarm is a Keyword referring to an ability with “if this card is the top card of your clock, a specified ability is present, or a specified effect’s Trigger Condition is fulfilled” in its effects. This Keyword is not an ability per se, and has no meaning in terms of effects. 10.1.2. All abilities written as “(Ability Category Icon) Alarm (Text)” are Keyword Abilities possessing the Keyword “Alarm”.
10.2. Encore 10.2.1. Encore is an automatic Keyword Ability where the Trigger Condition is a card being put from the stage to the waiting room. 10.2.2. “Encore [(Cost)]” refers to “[(Cost)] When this card is put into your waiting room from the stage, you may pay the cost. If you do, put this card on the stage position it was in immediately before this in the Rest State.”. 10.2.3. Unless otherwise specified, all characters possess the ability “ Encore [③]”. 10.2.4. “When (player) use this card’s Encore” refers to “when (a specified character) is placed on the stage from the waiting room by the effects of Encore”.
10.3. Assist 10.3.1. Assist is a continuous Keyword Ability with an effect that has its Trigger Condition fulfilled when a character possessing that ability is placed on the back stage. 10.3.2. “Assist (Text)” refers to “Insofar as this character is placed on the back stage, the effect of (Text) is an active effect.”.
10.4. Bond 10.4.1. Bond is an automatic Keyword Ability that allows a player to return a specified character from their waiting room to their hand upon paying a cost when that card is played and placed on the stage or placed from hand to the stage. 10.4.2. “Bond/“(English Card Name)” [(Cost)]” refers to “When this character is played and placed on the stage or placed from hand to the stage, you may pay (Cost). If you do, choose a card named “(English Card Name)” in your waiting room, and return it to your hand.”. 10.4.2.1. If the English Card Name section has multiple card names such as ““(English Card Name A)””(English Card Name B)””, you may choose 1 card in your waiting room with a card name that corresponds to either of the listed card names and return it to your hand.
10.5. Backup 10.5.1. Backup is an activated Keyword Ability that allows the opponent of the turn player to play a card possessing this ability in their hand during the Counter Step of that Attack Sub-

― 19 ―

Phase when one of their characters is frontal attacked. 10.5.2. “Backup (X), Level (Y) [(Cost)]” refers to “[(Cost)] Choose a defending character that you are a master of. That character gets +X power until end of turn. This ability can only be played on your opponent’s Counter Step if your level is (Y) or higher.”. 10.5.3. “When (player) uses “Backup”” refers to “when (player) finishes paying the cost for a “Backup” ability”.
10.6. Great Performance 10.6.1. Great Performance is a continuous Keyword Ability that restricts a player’s opponent’s attacks when the character that possesses that ability is on a specified stage position. 10.6.2. “Great Performance” refers to “Insofar as this character is on the middle position of your center stage, and is not in the Reverse State, when any of the characters that your opponent is a master of attacks, the attacking character Frontal Attacks this character as though it were the defending character.”.
10.7. Brainstorm 10.7.1. Brainstorm is a Keyword referring to the following chain of actions, “flip over a specified number of cards from the top of your deck, put those cards into your waiting room, and reference the information of those cards”, of which the effect can be found in events or abilities. This Keyword is not an ability per se, and has no meaning in terms of effects. 10.7.2. All effects of events are written as “Brainstorm (Effect)” and all abilities written as “(Ability Category Icon) Brainstorm (Text)” possess the Keyword “Brainstorm”. 10.7.3. When a player moves cards from the top of their deck into their waiting room under the effect of a card possessing the Keyword “Brainstorm”, after the specified number of cards have been moved to the resolution zone once, all of those cards are simultaneously moved to the waiting room. 10.7.4. “When (player) uses “Brainstorm”” refers to “when (player) has put the cards that were flipped over for the resolution of “Brainstorm” into the waiting room, while resolving the effect of an event card or ability that possesses the Keyword “Brainstorm””.
10.8. Change 10.8.1. Change is a Keyword referring to an ability that accompanies the execution of the action “when a character that possesses this ability is put into a specified zone, put a specified character in that specified zone into the original character’s zone” or “exchange the character possessing this ability and a specified character in a specified zone” in its effect. This Keyword is not an ability per se, and has no meaning in terms of effects.

10.8.2. All abilities written as “(Ability Category Icon) Change (Text)” are abilities possessing the Keyword “Change”.
10.8.3. When a character possessing Change is exchanged with a specified character in a specified zone, if during this ability’s resolution, the character possessing this ability is moved from one zone to another other than from one stage position to another, or if the specified card does not exist in the specified zone, the exchanging of characters is not executed.
10.8.4. “When this card is placed on the stage by a “Change” effect” refers to “When you play an ability that possesses the Keyword “Change”, placing this card on the stage from a zone other than the stage by that effect”.
10.8.5. “When (player) uses “Change”” refers to “when a character is placed on the stage from any zone by a “Change” effect”.
10.9. Memory 10.9.1. Memory is a Keyword referring to an ability with “reference the number of cards, et cetera, in your memory, and execute a resolution” in its effect, or an ability that is possessed by a card when it is in the memory. This Keyword is not an ability per se, and has no meaning in terms of effects. 10.9.2. All abilities written as “(Ability Category Icon) Memory (Text)” or abilities of event cards written as “Memory (Text)” are abilities possessing the Keyword “Memory”.
10.10. Experience 10.10.1. Experience is a Keyword referring to an ability with “reference the number of cards, et cetera, in your level, and execute a resolution” in its effect, or an ability that is possessed by a card when it is in the level. This Keyword is not an ability per se, and has no meaning in terms of effects. 10.10.2. All abilities written as “(Ability Category Icon) Experience (Text)” or abilities of event cards written as “Experience (Text)” are abilities possessing the Keyword “Experience”.
10.11. Shift 10.11.1. Shift is an automatic Keyword Ability that allows a player to exchange a card in their clock and a card in their hand, at the start of the Main Phase. 10.11.2. “Shift, Level (Number)” refers to “At the beginning of your main phase, if this card is in your clock, and your level is (Number) or higher, you may choose this card and a card in your hand of the same color, and exchange them.”. 10.11.3. When cards are exchanged by Shift, exactly two (2) cards – the card possessing that ability and the card in your hand – must be chosen. 10.11.3.1. During the resolution of Shift, if, for any reason, the card possessing that ability

― 20 ―

cannot be chosen, players are not allowed to choose to exchange cards. 10.11.3.2. During the resolution of Shift, if the player does not have a card of the same color in their hand, that player is not allowed to choose to exchange cards. 10.11.4. “When (player) uses “Shift”” refers to “when a card in (player’s) clock and hand are exchanged by a “Shift” effect”.
10.12. Accelerate 10.12.1. Accelerate is a Keyword referring to an ability that accompanies the execution of the action “put a card into your clock” in its cost. This Keyword is not an ability per se, and has no meaning in terms of effects. 10.12.2. All abilities written as “(Ability Category Icon) Accelerate (Text)” are abilities possessing the Keyword “Accelerate”. 10.12.3. “When (player) uses “Accelerate”” refers to “when (player) finishes paying the cost for an ability that possesses the Keyword “Accelerate””.
10.13. Resonate 10.13.1. Resonate is a Keyword referring to an ability that accompanies the execution of the action “reveal a specified card in your hand” in the cost or effect of a card or ability. This Keyword is not an ability per se, and has no meaning in terms of effects. 10.13.2. All abilities written as “(Ability Category Icon) Resonate (Text)”, and event cards written as “Resonate (Text)”, are considered to possess the Keyword “Resonate”. 10.13.3. “When (player) uses “Resonate”” refers to one of the following. 10.13.3.1. If a card or ability with Resonate has the revealing of a specific card as a cost, “Resonate” is considered as having been used when the cost to play that card or ability is paid. 10.13.3.2. If a card or ability with Resonate does not have the revealing of a specific card as a cost, and has a paragraph with “Resonate” written at its start within the text, “Resonate” is considered as having been used when the cards specified for the “you may reveal” action are revealed as specified.
10.14. Fusion 10.14.1. Fusion is a Keyword referring to an activated ability where the character with that ability and another specified character(s) are put as markers, and a specified character(s) is put on the stage. This Keyword is not an ability per se, and has no meaning in terms of effects. 10.14.1.1. Usually, this ability refers to " [Put (Character A) from your stage face up underneath this card as a marker] Search your deck for up to one (Character B), put it on this card's stage position, put this card and all markers underneath this

card face up in any order underneath (Character B) as markers, and shuffle your deck.". 10.14.1.1.1. If, for any reason, Character B is
not put on the stage, since the portion "put Character B on this card's stage position, put this card and all markers underneath this card face up in any order underneath Character B as markers" is not executed, the execution of the effect ends in the state where Character A is put as a marker of the character possessing the Fusion ability. Even in this case, the deck must be shuffled. 10.14.1.1.2. If the character possessing the Fusion ability already has markers, those markers also become markers of Character B. 10.14.1.1.2.1 If Character A has any
markers, they are put into the owner's waiting room at the instance when the cost is paid (3.7.3.2). Those markers do not become markers of the character possessing the Fusion ability or of Character B. 10.14.2. All abilities written as " Fusion (Text)" are abilities possessing the Keyword "Fusion". 10.14.3. "When (player) uses "Fusion"" refers to " when a character is placed on the stage from any zone by the effect of an ability that possesses the Keyword "Fusion"".
10.15. Sunder 10.15.1. Sunder is a Keyword Ability where, at the end of a character's attack (7.6.1.5), that character's marker is put on the stage as a new character, and all other characters up to that point are put as markers. 10.15.2. "Sunder/"(English Card Name)" [(Cost)]" refers to "At the end of the attack, if this card was the attacking character, you may pay the cost. If you do, choose a card named (English Card Name) among the markers underneath this card, and one of your stage positions. Put that chosen card, with this card and all cards not chosen as markers, on the chosen stage position.". 10.15.3. The character put on the stage position by Sunder is a separate, new character from the one possessing the Sunder ability. All effects and statuses applied on the character possessing the Sunder ability are not continued. 10.15.3.1. Unless otherwise specified by an effect, characters put on the stage position by Sunder are put in the Stand State ( ). 10.15.4. At the instance when the cost is paid, if there is no marker with the specified English Card Name underneath the character possessing the Sunder ability, all effects of Sunder after that point are not resolved. The character possessing the Sunder ability is also not moved to the chosen stage position.

― 21 ―

10.16. Link 10.16.1. Link is a continuous ability that specifies a name. 10.16.2. Link is written as “Link (Name)”. 10.16.3. The “Link” of the Link ability may be
represented in card text with a icon. 10.16.4. Link does not have any effect itself, but
may be referred to by other abilities or effects.
10.16.4.1. “With (Name)” refers to “with a Link ability that specifies (Name)”.

10.17. Turn Usage Restriction 10.17.1. Turn Usage Restriction is a Keyword that abilities with limits on the number of times they can be played in a turn have. 10.17.2. Turn Usage Restriction is written as “(Ability Category Icon) (Limit)/Turn (Text)”. 10.17.2.1. Just as “1/Turn” may be written with

the

icon and “2/Turn” may be

written with the

icon, other Turn

Usage Restriction limits may be written

with similar icons. 10.17.3. If an activated ability or automatic ability
has a Turn Usage Restriction, and the number of times that ability has been played this turn is equal to or greater than the limit written for the Turn Usage Restriction, that ability cannot be played. 10.17.4. If an automatic ability has a Turn Usage Restriction, and the number of times that

ability has been played this turn is less than the limit written for the Turn Usage Restriction, choose either to play it or to extinguish an occurrence of that ability’s Standby Condition without playing it, and perform that.

Section 11. Miscellaneous
11.1. Infinite Loops 11.1.1. When executing a resolution, it is possible that some actions may be executed indefinitely, or a player is forced to execute an action indefinitely. This is known as an “infinite loop”, and the sequence of actions from the start of an infinite loop until it goes back to its original point are known as “loop actions”. In this instance, do as follows: 11.1.1.1. During that sequence, if both players are unable to stop that infinite loop, the game ends in a draw. 11.1.1.2. During that sequence, if only one player is given the choice of terminating that infinite loop, that player declares how many times to repeat this infinite loop, executes the infinite loop for only that number of times, and stops the infinite loop by executing the choice that will stop the infinite loop. After this, if the current status is exactly the same as before the infinite loop began (that is, every card in every zone is exactly the same), except when forced to by automatic abilities, et cetera, players are not allowed to choose this infinite loop again. 11.1.1.3. During that sequence, if both players are given the choice of terminating that infinite loop, first, the turn player declares how many times to repeat this infinite loop, then, the opponent of the turn player declares how many times to repeat this infinite loop. Then, the player who declared the smaller number of repetitions executes the infinite loop for only that number of times, and stops the infinite loop by executing the choice that will stop the current infinite loop. After this, if the current status is exactly the same as before the infinite loop began (that is, every card in every zone is exactly the same), except when forced to by automatic abilities, et cetera, the player who declared the larger number is not allowed to choose this infinite loop again.

11.2. Actions that Merit an Additional Turn 11.2.1. Some effects allow a player to take an additional turn. If there is such an effect, at the instance when play advances from an End Phase to a new turn (6.8.1.5), the opponent of the current turn player does not becomes the new turn player, and the specified player becomes the turn player. 11.2.2. If multiple actions allow a player to take an additional turn, the turn player chooses one (1) of the very last effects to be generated among them, and applies it. All other effects allowing additional turns are postponed until the next turn.

― 22 ―

11.3. Replay Command

Changelog

11.3.1. Certain cards have a Replay Command

attached to their abilities and/or effects.

December 5, 2017; v2.00

11.3.1.1. Replay Command refers to the words

 Revamp of comprehensive rules, including:

below the Card Text enclosed in a green

o Consistent Wording

border and beginning with a Replay Icon

o Wording that reflects modern card text

(

).

o Wording that conveys more accurate

11.3.1.2. Replay Commands are written as

meaning

"

(Replay Action) (Replay

Effect)". The Replay Action is written in red

text.

o Diagrams and symbols, where necessary o Better formatting that increases clarity  Changelog started

11.3.1.3. The contents of a Replay Command cannot be executed by any means other than resolution as dictated by 11.3.2.

June 12, 2018; v2.01, b  3.12.2.2. Corrected an error in the rules.

11.3.2. Cards possessing a Replay Command

 4.10.1.3. Corrected an internal reference to a

have resolutions written in red text within the

section of the comprehensive rules.

effect outside of the Replay Command. When

 7.5.1.3. Replaced with 7.5.1.3 and 7.5.1.4 to clarify

resolving the portion of red text by means of

certain gameplay situations.

the effect, the Replay Effect of that Replay

 7.6.2. Replaced with 7.6.1.4 and 7.6.1.5 to clarify

command is executed.

certain gameplay situations.

Example: If there is a card with " When this card is placed on the stage, Play a

 10.14. Added the Keyword Ability Fusion.  10.15. Added the Keyword Ability Sunder.

Game.", and that card's Replay Command is October 19, 2018; v2.02

"

Play a Game Draw 1 card.", when

this card is placed on the stage, that player

draws 1 card from their deck.

 3.9.2. Expanded to accommodate recent releases.  3.9.3. Expanded to accommodate recent releases.  4.8.2. Reworded to reflect card text.

11.4. Effects that progress directly to a specified

 4.9.2. Reworded to reflect card text.

Phase or a Step 11.4.1. Some cards have effects that instruct the
player to halt the current Phase or Step and to progress to a specified Phase or Step. In this case, resolve the effect as follows: 11.4.1.1. If there is a continuous effect that will
expire at a point between the current Phase or Step and the specified Phase or Step to be progressed to, that effect ends. 11.4.1.2. If the current Phase or Step is not the specified Phase or Step, move directly to the specified Phase or Step without proceeding through the respective check timings. The Phases or Steps between the current and the specified ones are skipped over, and effects that originally would have been executed and resolved are not executed.

February 13, 2019; v.2.03  Dissolved the "Special Notice" section.  1.3.1.1. Moved from the dissolved "Special Notice" section.  1.3.2. Moved from the dissolved "Special Notice" section.  2.1.1.3. Added in preparation for upcoming releases.  2.1.2. Edited in preparation for upcoming releases.  3.2.3. Reworded for greater clarity. Consolidated the details of 4.7, 4.8, 4.9.  7.2.1.6. Added in the timing for the activation of an Trigger Condition.  8.2.1.3.1. Corrected an error in the rules.  8.2.1.3.2. Corrected an error in the rules.  11.3. Added information regarding the Replay Command.

11.4.1.3. If there exist check type Rule Actions and automatic abilities in Standby

February 28, 2020; v.2.04

Condition to be completed, they are to be

 Revamp of comprehensive rules, including:

completed or played in the check timing

o Consistent Wording

that occurs in the specified Phase or Step

o Wording that reflects modern card text

that is moved onto.

o Wording that conveys more accurate

meaning

o Better formatting that increases clarity

 Dissolved 1.3.2

 Addition of 3.1.5.1.1

 Addition of 3.11.3

 Addition of 3.11.3.1

 Addition of 4.12.2.8.1

 Addition of 7.2.1.3.1.1

 Addition of 7.2.1.3.1.2

 Addition of 7.2.1.3.1.3

 Addition of 8.10.2.4

 Addition of 10.2.4

― 23 ―

 Addition of 10.4.2.1  Addition of 10.5.3  Addition of 11.4  Addition of 11.4.1  Addition of 11.4.1.1  Addition of 11.4.1.2  Addition of 11.4.1.3
July 3, 2020; v.2.05  Addition of 4.12.2.11
November 26, 2021; v.2.06  2.1.2.2. Updated criteria for referencing partial card names.  2.12.2.3 Expanded definition of valid abilities.  2.19. Added definition for referencing information.  3.2.3. Expanded process for handling cards on the top of the deck to apply to the bottom of the deck.  3.6.6. Added definition for handling illegal cards on stage positions.  3.11.3. Updated definition for handling illegal cards in the climax area.  7.3.1.2.1. Added definition of trigger checks.  8.1.1.1.2 Updated definition of using activated abilities.  9.6.1. Updated definition of rule action regarding illegal cards  10.5.3. Updated definition of using “Backup”.  10.7.4. Updated definition of using “Brainstorm”.  10.8.5. Updated definition of using “Change”.  10.11.4. Updated definition of using “Shift”.  10.12.3. Updated definition of using “Accelerate”.  10.13.3. Updated definition of using “Resonate”.  10.14.3. Updated definition of using “Fusion”.  Minor updates to writing style.

April 25, 2025; v.2.09  Clarified that only the actions the card possessed when put in the resolution zone are executed for a trigger check  Clarified that the actions reliant on the nonperformance of an action are only performed if that action could not, or was not chosen to, be performed
September 17, 2025; v.2.10  Clarified the duration of effects that look at or reveal cards.  Clarified which player performs effects.  Changed the Trigger condition of ”Bond”.  Added definition for “Link”.  Added definition for “Turn Usage Restriction”.
The most recent changes have been reflected in red text.

August 1, 2022; v.2.07  Clarified resolution of shuffling of face down cards in memory.  Clarified timing when cards and abilities are “played”.  Clarified referencing of battle opponent’s information.  Changed steps for refresh resolution to add the card to clock immediately after reshuffling.  Updated timing for “when (player) uses Resonate”

November 29, 2024; v.2.08  Updated rules regarding resolution of actions on a number of cards from the deck.  Added definitions for the writing of “climax” as “CX” in text  Updated rules regarding exchanging of cards in the marker area and the stage.  Updated rules regarding the order of resolution of multiple trigger icons. ”

― 24 ―

